We thank the reviewers for their time and insightful feedback. Given that this is relatively early stage work, we propose editing the paper to (1) better clarify the key contributions for HCI including the agenda for further work, and (2) make the current research more reproducible and extensible by others.

For (1) we propose to restructure the “Discussion” section into two key parts. 
The first part will articulate the key lessons already learned from our research so far. Here, we agree with R1 that a generic observation that designers creatively work with constraints would be somewhat obvious. Rather, the distinctive contribution of our paper is to explain in detail how they achieved this in practice. We propose to sharpen our contribution here by distilling these insights into a set of design tactics for embellishing, coloring and otherwise camouflaging codes within wider patterns. 

However, we also agree with R1 that we also need to better explain how such findings are relevant beyond the specifics of d-touch. D-touch is interesting here because it is based on simple rules that make sense to designers whose professional practice is grounded in extensive drawing skills. It is therefore something of an open question for further research as to whether designers would so easily be able to bring these skills to bear with other recognition approaches (or indeed non-visual recognition technologies). What we should better explain, however, is our key argument that (whatever technology is used) designers must be able to easily understand and reason in their own terms about the underlying rules by which it operates so as to be able to creatively work with and around its constraints. We believe that this is a significant lesson for HCI, and one that has only emerged from a “symmetrical handing of the value and skill of both technologists and designers” as noted by R3. With this in mind, we will also mention our overall approach to working with technologists and designers as a further contribution.

The second part of the discussion will better articulate key opportunities and challenges for future work in carrying this new approach forward. This will include:

-	Summarizing a range of potential applications of the approach from associating personal memories and stories with valuable ceramic items (e.g., the special family dining set that is handed down between generations), to new ways enhancing the dining experience and customer loyalty in restaurants that have emerged from our process with Busaba, to wider uses of patterns on wallpapers, textiles and other designed surfaces that might enable people to find out about their designers and sources.  We will also briefly note these ideas in the introduction to strengthen the initial motivation.

-	Noting key open research questions. This will include the current material on how people might interact with complex and extended patterns that contain many different codes, but will also include exciting new questions raised by the reviewers such as how existing designs and patterns be used as a starting point for design, how designers can be given feedback on the degree to which their design is identifiable in varied contexts, how we can embed the technique into current workflows, and whether designers will be able to work with less drawing based approaches as noted earlier.

Turning to (2), we agree with the Primary and R2 about the need to add some detail to ensure reproducibility. We will:

- Extend ‘Phase 1” with details of the software implementation (structure, libraries and clarification of how tradeoffs between processing power, camera field of view and resolution shaped our constraints). The final version will include links to open source software and documentation and a downloadable Android app that designers can experiment with. We will also clarify the composition of the team at this stage and how they worked together.

Add some details to ‘Phase 2” to clarify the backgrounds of the designers, the brief they were given, and how we worked with them.

Extend Phase 3 with more details of the Busaba setting. Our focus to this point has been on working with the Busaba creative team as commissioners and customers rather than directly on their end customers (though the latter is certainly important for future work). We will provide more details of how we worked with them (workshop structures and process) and the feedback from initial demonstrations. This will include reflections from a public demonstration at one of their restaurants that yielded preliminary feedback suggesting that people were generally happy and able to interact with plates, placemats and menus that triggered restaurant services, although extreme lighting raised some challenges for further work.

We will also update “Our approach” with some of the key details of the overall design process.

Much of this change will involve a restructuring of the discussion. We will make space for the additional details of process and technology in earlier sections by thinning out the material in the longish “Phase 2” description.
Apologies for the grammatical errors – we will check carefully and fix these.
