CHI 2013 Papers and Notes (Refereed)

Reviews of submission #1214: "From Codes to Patterns:  Designing
Interactive Decoration for Tableware"

------------------------ Submission 1214, Review 4 ------------------------

Reviewer:           primary
Overall rating:     3.5  (scale is 1..5; 5 is best)

Your Assessment of this Paper's Contribution to HCI


Overall Rating

   3.5 . . . Between neutral and possibly accept 

Review

   This paper describes the co-design process of developing visual codes
   among designers and technologists. The codes were used for vision
   recognition on ceramics, placemats and menus through a series of
   workshops.

   This paper explores an interesting and worthwhile intersection of pattern
   illustration (drawing) and code (computer vision) that is in relatively
   early stages of development in terms of the field's interest in this
   topic. Reviewers are generally positive toward the paper's contribution,
   noting that the domain has "tremendous potential for widespread impact"
   (R2). I agree with this assessment: the approach is compelling, if thin
   on detail (R2), and presents some useful insights into how we might
   create visually identifiable patterns that reflect, complement, or blend
   in with their environment. Near the end of the paper, for instance, the
   authors suggest developing tools for designers to develop visual codes.
   Building on this suggestion, R3 asks, "how could existing designs and
   patterns be used as a start point for recognition algorithms?" How might
   we enable artists and designers to receive feedback on the degree to
   which their design is identifiable given a range of backgrounds and
   contexts? While one pattern may be identifiable under varying curvatures,
   another pattern may be identifiable under varying lighting conditions.
   These issues hold promise, and expanding on the authors' design
   considerations could strengthen the discussion.

   That being said, reviewers raised several critical concerns that deserve
   attention in the rebuttal. Firstly, the paper's descriptions are missing
   key details, including the development of the constraints, the production
   of the place settings, the setting of the Basuba workshops, and even the
   software itself (R2). As R2 points out, providing more detail would allow
   readers to take on a similar design strategy in future work. Secondly,
   the design takeaways and methods could use clarification. R1 is unsure
   what new insights are revealed in the workshops with designers, and what
   people who use the codes make of the unique patterning. While it seems
   reasonable to explore these ideas using a system that's already built, R1
   also asks how insights from these explorations might translate across
   domains and tools. The authors do not sufficiently motivate the use of
   vision technologies beyond noting the popularity of such systems.Why we
   would want to stick digital identifiers on ceramics? Are there
   limitations (social, temporal, material) to such an approach? The authors
   should speak to these concerns in the rebuttal, filling in missing
   details and elaborating on the motivations and takeaways for HCI.

Expertise

   4  (Expert )

The Meta-Review


Associate Chairs Additional Comments 


The Review


Areas for Improvement



------------------------ Submission 1214, Review 5 ------------------------

Reviewer:           secondary
Overall rating:     4  (scale is 1..5; 5 is best)

Your Assessment of this Paper's Contribution to HCI


Overall Rating

   4.0 - Possibly Accept: I would argue for accepting this paper 

Review


Expertise

   

The Meta-Review


Associate Chairs Additional Comments 


2AC Additional Comments


The Review


Areas for Improvement


2AC Additional Comments to Rebuttal



------------------------ Submission 1214, Review 1 ------------------------

Reviewer:           external
Overall rating:     3.5  (scale is 1..5; 5 is best)

Your Assessment of this Paper's Contribution to HCI

   The paper presented an iterative process of developing visual codes that
   are aesthetically pleasing and refining the d-touch based recognition
   system that supports these visual codes. The authors worked with
   designers and programmers to explore the boundary of visually aesthetic
   patterns and functional codes. They also deployed the visual code system
   in a real restaurant using real ceramics and placemats and menus. The
   authors explored possible use cases of such visual pattern/code based
   interactions.

Overall Rating

   3.5 . . . Between neutral and possibly accept 

Review

   The paper was generally well written. It was interesting to see just how
   far the d-touch based visual codes could be stretched. It was nice to see
   examples of codes that are more aesthetically pleasing patterns rather
   than the usual bland code. The paper demonstrated aesthetic potential of
   codes usually not objects of beauty or even medium to be played with in a
   creative way. 

   The paper seemed to present three different findings: 1) aesthetic
   possibilities with an existing visual code system, 2) designers’
   creative strategies in camouflaging the codes, 3) how people (who are not
   part of the design process) interact with the codes and patterns in a
   restaurant setting. For each of these, I had concerns.

   First, the aesthetic possibilities with the d-touch code system. While it
   was interesting to see all those examples, one major concern I had with
   the paper was that the paper kept me wondering, why focus so much on the
   specific constrains set by the current d-touch system or the marker based
   vision system in general? What if other computer vision possibilities
   without reliance on any code system came along? How do authors’ current
   findings inform how people might produce and interact with patterns that
   act as codes, beyond this specific code-based interaction? The paper does
   not seem to address this issue.

   Second, the authors showed how designers “learned to work with and
   creatively exploit the technology,” and came up with different
   strategies to camouflage the code in their design. However, this is a
   predictable result since designers are used to working with some type of
   constrains to come up with creative solutions. Other than the fact
   designers are indeed creative and can design things, I am not sure what
   new insight might be here.

   Third concern I had with the paper was that the people who might use the
   system were disconnected from the design process of the new visual codes.
   On pages 7-8, the paper hinted at how people (not the designers) interact
   with visually aesthetic codes in a restaurant setting, and how that
   informs the design of future codes. This was interesting, yet, at the
   moment, it is quite disconnected from the actual design process of the
   codes and patterns. Designers and technologists seemed to have engaged in
   an iterative process of developing aesthetically pleasing codes, but not
   the actual people who might use them. Therefore, it is not clear what the
   significance of these aesthetically pleasing codes is in the context of
   people who use them.

   Therefore, while the paper does have some interesting findings at
   different places, they do not currently seem to feed into each other to
   make a compelling case for why and for whom the transition from “codes
   to patterns” needs to happen.

Expertise

   3  (Knowledgeable)

Areas for Improvement



------------------------ Submission 1214, Review 2 ------------------------

Reviewer:           external
Overall rating:     4  (scale is 1..5; 5 is best)

Your Assessment of this Paper's Contribution to HCI

   This paper explores the co-creation by technologists and designers of
   machine readable patterns that are aesthetically varied (& beautiful!) &
   recognition systems to identify them.  This domain is important and
   relevant with clear potential for broad real-world impact.  The paper
   illustrates how it is possible (indeed easy) to embed machine readable
   codes into a wide variety of patterned everyday objects.  It describes a
   framework for creating such patterns (that was based on earlier work) and
   discusses a user study in which ceramic place settings with embedded
   codes were designed. The study involved real-world designers and
   restauranteurs and the creation of novel ceramics.

Overall Rating

   4.0 - Possibly Accept: I would argue for accepting this paper 

Review

   This is a compelling paper with some unfortunate weaknesses.  I would
   lean toward acceptance because I think the authors have some wonderful
   and unusual insights to share.  The paper explores a relatively new
   domain that has tremendous potential for widespread impact.  The authors
   do an excellent job of integrating new technological developments into
   traditional design practices and then exploring the implications of this
   integration.  They do so in an impressively real-world setting using real
   (and very challenging) materials, real designers, and real
   restauranteurs.  

   The paper's most significant weakness is in not providing enough detail
   in the descriptions of the user studies.  Though it is clear that the
   authors conducted a thoughtful and successful exploration, the paper
   doesn't do as good a job as it could of teaching us how to follow a
   similar process.  In more scientific terms, it would be hard to replicate
   their experience because they don't provide enough detail about their
   process.  I believe that the authors could, without a lot of effort, add
   details to the paper that would significantly strengthen the paper on
   this dimension.  See more on this below.

   The other major disappointment is that the system was never
   deployed/tested.  It would be terrific to have some feedback about the
   system in use.  It seems like it would not be difficult to stage a dinner
   that used the place settings & software that were developed.  Why wasn't
   this done?  At a minimum, it would be good to have some
   explanation/discussion of this omission.  The "interacting with patterns"
   discussion section feels especially thin without some real-world feedback
   from other people to refer to & reflect on.

Expertise

   3  (Knowledgeable)

Areas for Improvement

   The paper is basically well written.  It is nicely organized; the
   arguments are clear, compelling, and easy to follow.  However, there are
   many grammatical errors throughout the text and it would benefit from a
   careful proof reading.

   Perhaps the most important flaw is that the paper should provide more
   details about the (rich & fascinating) co-design process.  

   For instance, I had several questions about the first phase of the study
   (developing the constraints and rules that define readable patterns). 
   How many designers and technologists were involved?  What were their
   basic backgrounds?  How exactly did you elicit feedback from them &/or
   codevelop the system?  How did you create and test sample patterns before
   deciding on the rule set?  How many times did the team meet?  How many
   design iterations did you go through before deciding on the rule set? 
   etc.  It would be extremely useful for other designers to have more
   information about this part of the process.    

   I had a similar set of questions for the other phases.  How long was the
   first development workshop you held with designers?  Were the designers
   male or female, what ages?  How many workshops did you hold with the
   Bashuba staff members?  Were designers also involved in this phase?  Can
   you say more about the process of actually (physically) producing the
   place settings?  

   The paper should include a practical system description (one that
   includes a description of the actual software & not just the conceptual
   rules) early on in the paper. The user studies are centered around the
   software as much as the design rules.  Certain things are difficult to
   make sense of without this introduction, for example the discussion of
   reliability issues and discussions of the use of the software during the
   user studies.


------------------------ Submission 1214, Review 3 ------------------------

Reviewer:           external
Overall rating:     4.5  (scale is 1..5; 5 is best)

Your Assessment of this Paper's Contribution to HCI

   The paper From Codes to Patterns is nominated by the authors as making a
   contribution to the Development or Refinement of Interface Artifacts or
   Techniques. The authors present a clear discussion of an iterative design
   process relating to a clear use case which brings together ceramic
   designers, a restaurant and technologists. The contribution lies
   specifically in the collaborative features of a design process that
   enables the  aesthetic constraints of the code elements of an image
   recognition system to be extended and deepened by the design sensibility
   of pattern makers.

Overall Rating

   4.5 . . . Between possibly accept and strong accept 

Review

   A clear description of a collaborative case design case involving ceramic
   designers, a restaurant and technologists. Good structure which includes
   a careful selection of underlying technology and unusually, and to the
   credit of the authors, provides something of a symmetrical handling of
   the value and skill of both the technologists and designers.

Expertise

   3  (Knowledgeable)

Areas for Improvement

   It would be interesting to see how the collaboration features discussed
   in the paper might be developed. For example how could existing designs
   and patterns be used as a start point for recognition algorithms? How
   might the approaches and workflow of designers be better understood by
   technologists?



