CHI 2013 Papers and Notes (Refereed)

Reviews of submission #1435: "MultiNet: Reducing Interaction Overhead in
Domestic Wireless Networks"

------------------------ Submission 1435, Review 4 ------------------------

Reviewer:           primary
Overall rating:     3.5  (scale is 1..5; 5 is best)

Your Assessment of this Paper's Contribution to HCI

   The paper contributes the prototype implementation and evaluation of
   MultiNet, a method for joining new devices to a domestic wireless network
   with the goal of reducing interaction overhead. In contrast to earlier
   approaches, MultiNet dynamically re-configures the network to accept new
   devices instead of configuring the devices themselves. Device association
   is performed out-of-band using visual QR markers. MultiNet introduces a
   third device, a trusted and permanently associated network controller
   (such as a smartphone), that detects and reads these markers using its
   integrated camera. The authors compare MultiNet with Wi-Fi Protected
   Setup (WPS) in a usability study with 16 participants asked to create a
   network consisting of three devices. Results of a SUS questionnaire and
   post-hoc interviews as well as lower task completion times show the
   advantages of MultiNet over WPS.

Overall Rating

   3.5 . . . Between neutral and possibly accept 

Review

   Overall, I very much enjoyed reading this paper given that it's well
   written, clearly motivated and nicely describes the design and
   implementation of MultiNet. Although adding a link to a personal website
   reduces anonymity to absurdity, I applaud the authors for providing the
   MultiNet source code at all as this makes it very easy for others to
   reproduce the results and findings of the paper. While I personally don't
   see any serious problems with state-of-the-art device association in
   typical domestic networks (the wireless router comes preconfigured, SSID
   and password on a label attached to the router, selecting the network on
   the device, enter password, done) I certainly wouldn't claim that the
   problem of secure device association is solved. In that sense, further
   work on this problem is definitely interesting although I'm not fully
   convinced that CHI is a suitable/the best venue to publish such research.

   While the idea of using a proxy between the access point (AP) and the
   device to be associated is not entirely new [1], the paper presents the
   first ever prototype implementation of this idea which, I think, still
   makes the work sufficiently novel (please explain more explicitly how
   your approach compares to Blinking Lights, reference 19). I don't fully
   share the criticism of the authors concerning device association using
   SSID and password given that it worked just nicely for all devices that I
   ever tried to associate with an AP. My main concern with the paper,
   however, is the fact that I don't buy into the authors' central argument
   that -- to solve this alleged problem -- adding a third device indeed
   reduces interaction overhead. While this seems to be the case when
   looking at the results of the user study and the questionnaire, it's
   important to note that the evaluation completely left out the
   bootstrapping procedure (the initial association of the controller) as
   well as the scanning of the QR markers, which may fail in difficult
   lighting conditions. This is certainly not a realistic evaluation of the
   proposed system and IMHO also represents an unfair comparison with WPS. A
   realistic usage scenario and experimental procedure that should have been
   studied in the evaluation is the following: The user gets a MultiNet
   wireless AP that comes readily configured (just as WPS routers). The user
   also gets a new smartphone or an older, unused phone that he already owns
   to act as a controller in the network. The user then has to associate
   that controller to the wireless AP. Given that both devices are most
   likely from different vendors, this initial association is a non-trivial
   task but one that has not been studied or discussed in the paper at all.
   If the user succeeds with this bootstrapping, he can enjoy the benefits
   of MultiNet, namely to simply scan QR codes with the smartphone to
   associate new devices to the network. This may fail in some cases but
   overall most devices are associable. If the bootstrapping fails, however,
   the user is completely stuck as he won't be able to associate a single
   device to the network. 

   My second main concern relates to the chosen out-of-band channel and its
   security. While QR markers are indeed easy to use, at least if the
   lighting conditions don't prevent the markers from being scanned, the
   paper doesn't discuss at all which security implications and problems
   freely available SSID and passphrases (encoded in QR code) might have
   (and I'm absolutely sure cracking these codes is feasible and would
   happen if the potential benefits are high enough). In addition, the
   additional controller - particularly because it is fully trusted by the
   AP - represents a major potential security problem to the network. If the
   controller is stolen or hacked or the QR code photographed by a malicious
   user, any device can be associated with the network without further
   security checks. So, in summary, while usability might indeed be higher
   with MultiNet (given the realistic evaluation described above yields
   similar results) the paper didn't convince me at all that the same is
   true for security.

   [1] KL Calvert et al. "Moving toward the middle: The case against the
   end-to-end argument in home networking"
   Proceedings of 6th ACM Workshop on Hot Topics in Networks (HotNets 2007)

Expertise

   3  (Knowledgeable)

The Meta-Review

   ORIGINAL REVIEW:
   Overall, all reviewers seemed to like the work although scores are kind
   of split into two groups with R4 giving the highest score. R2 mentioned
   that "this is an interesting paper, that provides a very novel take on
   the problem of device association to home networks." and continued by
   saying that "There's a good amount of technical ingenuity behind this
   approach". Novelty didn't seem to be a critical issue for most reviewers
   with R2 saying that the work "presents a novel mechanism for associating
   devices to a home network" and R4 that the "prototype implementation of
   this idea makes the work sufficiently novel". Only R3 raised "concerns
   about whether the interaction technique is novel enough" and mentioned
   that "the interaction is the same as Seeing is Believing". The major
   criticisms revolved around the fact that the paper is very technical and
   therefore makes "very little contribution to field of HCI" (R1), that the
   evaluation is not realistic given that the authors "completely left out
   the bootstrapping procedure as well as the scanning of the QR code"
   (Ro4), as well as concerns "whether it would be as usable in real world
   settings" (R3). Three reviewers didn't believe the paper's central
   argument that adding a controller really reduces interaction overhead
   (R1, R4), whether it's "worthwhile to install controller to pair 3-5
   devices" (R3) and said that they don't believe the assumptions of the
   system are practical (R1). R1 and R2 mentioned that the description of
   the testbed wasn't clear enough and also criticised the discussion that
   doesn't discuss "caveats of the system" (R2) and lacks results on the
   interviews (R1). Finally, R1 and R4 questioned the security and usability
   of the used QR codes if they are compromised or used in dim environments.

   At this point, this AC is inclined toward rejection given the above
   points, particularly those of R1, R3 and R4. But, if the authors choose
   to write a rebuttal, then they could most usefully use that space to help
   better motivate and characterize the real-world usability of the system,
   the significance of the claimed contribution and perhaps argue why the
   evaluation may still be realistic.

   POST-REBUTTAL COMMENT:
   I'm afraid the rebuttal didn't at all address my major concern regarding
   the evaluation that I still don't think was fair (due to bootstrapping
   and QR scanning left out) and thus realistic. This, in turn, still lets
   me doubt the superiority of the proposed approach in terms of usability.
   Although adding the (apparently existing but left-out) section on
   security would potentially have addressed my second main concern, I can
   only review what's there and I can't recommend acceptance without having
   confirmed that the section is as expected/required.

   POST-TPC MEETING COMMENT: 
   This paper will be shepherded. The paper will be accepted if you make the
   changes  requested by your shepherd and he/she approves them. Work
   together with your shepherd to ensure that you do what is required and
   clearly revise your paper based on the recommendations you have had. 
   Ensure you have sent an updated version of your paper to your shepherd by
   January 4th at the latest. Your  paper may need several revisions before
   it meets meet the acceptance criteria. 

Associate Chairs Additional Comments 


The Review


Areas for Improvement



------------------------ Submission 1435, Review 5 ------------------------

Reviewer:           secondary
Overall rating:     4  (scale is 1..5; 5 is best)

Your Assessment of this Paper's Contribution to HCI


Overall Rating

   4.0 - Possibly Accept: I would argue for accepting this paper 

Review


Expertise

   2  (Passing Knowledge)

The Meta-Review

   -- Post Rebuttal Before PC Meeting --

   I really like this work, but regretfully agree the current submission
   cannot be accepted.  We need to review the version of the paper that is
   submitted, and so the CHI process won't allow proper review of the
   promised security discussion.  This seems beyond a simple shepherding
   process where a single AC can agree to review the changes.  Instead, the
   promised security discussion needs to actually be properly reviewed.

   I agree with R2 and the authors that a move to a controller is a novel
   contribution beyond Seeing is Believing.  For me, the easiest way to see
   this is to think about devices that want to attach to a network but do
   not have displays or cameras (e.g., sensors or some other very small form
   factor devices).  This begs the question of whether such devices should
   just include a button for WPS, but I am convinced by author arguments
   that routers are increasingly hidden away and not near the device that
   needs associated.  The controller approach also suggests other
   possibilities, such as including a virtual WPS button on the remote (in
   addition to the physical WPS button on the router and instead of
   requiring scanning of a QR code).  So I see a bit of a contribution in
   the controller idea itself.

   I also find it entirely reasonable to believe that bootstrapping can be
   removed by simply shipping a pre-associated controller together with the
   router.  My experience has been that routers have a relatively short life
   (for one reason or another, mine seems to be replaced approximately every
   5 years).  And the design seems to allow MultiNet-capable devices to
   co-exist with non-capable devices, so I can imagine marketing this as a
   feature (or perhaps eventually a requirement for sensors or other
   non-interactive devices which otherwise cannot be connected to the
   network).

   I also really enjoyed the presented "inversion", wherein the router is
   given the information that allows the client to connect.  The ability to
   delete access of a single device also seems obviously better than needing
   to change my router secret on all my devices.  I am not familiar with the
   state-of-the-art in networking, so I cannot really speak to the novelty
   of this inversion.  But none of the reviewers really seem to question its
   novelty, and I definitely feel this type of technical contribution has a
   place at CHI.

   I really hope the authors find reviewer reactions to this submission
   helpful in preparing future submissions.  I think there's good work here
   that can be a strong paper after some iteration on motivation and
   presentation based on reviewer comments.

   -- Post PC Meeting --

   ACs agreed this system is compelling and novel.  I think the paper could
   do a better job selling the novelty of this contribution.  My original
   review above notes that a continuing emergence of increasingly small
   devices, such as sensors or headsets or whatever, seems to motivate this
   problem even more than current devices.  Some reviewers picked up on
   this, while others didn't see the difference versus Seeing is Believing
   (which requires all devices have sufficient capabilities to do this
   themselves).  So the authors really need to motivate this better.  And
   the current submission only briefly mentions that the technology enables
   revocation of access, something current systems do not seem to enable at
   all (instead I change the password and re-authenticate all devices that
   should still have access).

   The 3AC convinced me that a simple security analysis can be handled
   within the revision process.  I will also plan to examine that addition
   to the paper.

Associate Chairs Additional Comments 


2AC Additional Comments


The Review


Areas for Improvement


2AC Additional Comments to Rebuttal



------------------------ Submission 1435, Review 6 ------------------------

Reviewer:           secondary
Overall rating:     5  (scale is 1..5; 5 is best)

Your Assessment of this Paper's Contribution to HCI


Overall Rating

   5.0 - Strong Accept: I would argue strongly for accepting this paper. 

Review


Expertise

   3  (Knowledgeable)

The Meta-Review


Associate Chairs Additional Comments 


2AC Additional Comments

   After discussion at the PC meeting I agreed to take a look at this paper.
   I strongly support acceptance. I think this paper solves an important
   usability problem in home networking through a novel and creative
   technological approach (use of private virtual networks, one per
   connected device).

   Having tried to associate a network printer with my password-protected
   home network via an unusable touch-screen interface, I am very excited
   about the usability and creativity of this approach. I would like to see
   ideas like this presented at CHI.

   I disagree with R1's criticism about the network controller configuration
   being a crucial part of this approach. If the approach is successful, AP
   manufacturers could ship a network controller as part of their product;
   in addition, smartphone app installation becomes easier every year.
   Therefore I believe that it's plausible to assume the presence of a
   network controller for the purposes of this paper.

   Another point that came up in the PC meeting discussion is about the
   "missing" security section in the paper. I believe based on the rebuttal
   that the authors have thoughtfully considered this topic and are capable
   of adding it to the paper. I don't think a security discussion is
   necessary for acceptance.  However, adding a short section on the
   sociotechnical aspects would be interesting to readers because it
   considers the problem from a broader perspective.

   One concern with adding new content to a paper post-submission is that
   new content is introduced which has not gone through the normal review
   process. If the authors decide to add this section, I would like to
   proofread the additional text just to make sure it doesn't say anything
   too embarrassing for CHI. However, based on the authors' original draft I
   have every confidence that the final work will be clear and thoughtful.



The Review


Areas for Improvement


2AC Additional Comments to Rebuttal



------------------------ Submission 1435, Review 1 ------------------------

Reviewer:           external
Overall rating:     1.5  (scale is 1..5; 5 is best)

Your Assessment of this Paper's Contribution to HCI

   This paper presents MultiNet. It uses a mobile device with a camera, such
   as a smartphone, as a intermediary for a wireless access point. The
   system uses QR code for capturing information for device association. The
   paper presented the design, implementation and an evaluation of MultiNet.

   The authors motivated by today's complex approaches of configuring
   wireless devices to an access point (AP). They designed MultiNet that is
   intended to reduce the user interaction during device association with an
   AP.

   Frankly, I find this paper have very little contribution to field of HCI.
   I suggested the authors to read up more on the related work from the
   previous CHI, UIST, Ubicomp and Pervasive conferences. Many issues in
   device association were not considered in the paper.

Overall Rating

   1.5 . . . Between reject and possibly reject 

Review

   Firstly, I feel that the paper is missing an argument of why adding a
   third device actually reduces the interactional overhead of joining
   devices to a network. From my understanding, MultiNet did not reduce the
   overhead, instead it transformed a device-to-access-point association to
   a device-to-device association (i.e. via a controller). However, this
   require an extra step of associating the controller to the AP.

   The authors argued that this is neglegible as it is a one-off
   interaction. However, I disagree and I do not understand why the authors
   considered this task as trivial. If people fail to associate the
   controller to the access point, everything fails thereafter. I think this
   step is the most crucial. The authors suggested that to bootstrap the
   network controller, users can install software on their devices or the
   manufacturer can provide a dedicated scanner. These suggestions are very
   artificial, and I do not believe they will be pracrtical.

   The authors assumed that QR code is the best out-of-band channel for
   device association. Did they consider alternatives, such as NFC,
   synchronous gestures (please check out Hinckley's paper presented at UIST
   2003), etc. ? MultiNet heavily relies on QR code, but the authors failed
   to consider the disadvantages of using it. For example, QR code doesn't
   work well in dim environment.

   Just by purely looking from a user's perspective, without considering any
   underlying system differences, the user interaction of MultiNet is the
   same as Seeing-is-Believing (SiB). To be honest, I don't see a
   difference.

   I appreciate the authors made the code open source. However, giving a URL
   that links to a website that reveals the author's identity kind of
   defeats the purpose of anonymity (Mr. Brown). Please be careful next time
   and use the features provided by the submission system.

   While reading the paper, there are several parts where things just
   suddenly mentioned without a clear explanation. For example, what is
   "hostapd" configuration file (p.5, 1st column, 1st paragraph)? What does
   it do? what is it for? It seems the authors assumed the readers to have
   the technical knowledge, but this is something that not everyone knows.
   Also, in the Technical Feasibility section, there is no explanation of
   why the authors chose throughput, latency and jitter as testing
   parameters. A motivation is required.

   In the technical feasibility test, Fig. 5, 6 and 7 show there is an
   abnormality when the number of networks is 15. I was hoping that the
   authors would explain or at least discuss what happened.

   The paper stated that for the technical feasibility test, 27 samsung
   laptops were used as clients and a netbook was used as an AP. However, a
   printer and a squeezebox suddenly appear in Fig.8 and the Device
   Connection Time section. Nothing about them were mentioned beforehand. I
   have no idea why those devices were selected or even why they were there.


   For the usability analysis, the authors chose to compare MultiNet with
   WPS with push-button configuration because this is the best alternative
   standard method. Who said this is the best alternative? reference?

   During the usability evaluation, task completion time and number of times
   the participants used the instructions were collect. What about number of
   errors made by the participants? And, what types of errors were made?
   Some important usability variables were not collected.

   I dislike the usability test. It mainly presented averages and t-test
   results. It doesn't provide much on understanding how people feel towards
   using MultiNet. The post trial interview shows extracts of what people
   said, but what are the underlying meanings? I think a discussion on the
   interview results is needed. Also, the authors only presented the
   positives of MultiNet, are there really no negatives at all?

   --
   Suggestions for reading:
   HINCKLEY, K. 2003. Synchronous gestures for multiple persons and
   computers. In Proceedings of the 16th annual ACM symposium on User
   interface software and technology. UIST ’03. ACM, New York, NY, USA,
   149–158.

   REKIMOTO, J. 2004. SyncTap: synchronous user operation for spontaneous
   network connection. Personal Ubiquitous Comput. 8, 126–134.

   AYATSUKA, Y. AND REKIMOTO, J. 2005. transticks: physically manipulatable
   virtual connections. In Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human
   factors in computing systems. CHI ’05. ACM, New York, NY, USA,
   251–260.

   KAINDA, R., FLECHAIS, I., AND ROSCOE, A. W. 2009. Usability and security
   of out-of-band channels in secure device pairing protocols. In
   Proceedings of the 5th Symposium on Usable Privacy and Security. SOUPS
   ’09. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 11:1–11:12.

   VARSHAVSKY, A., SCANNELL, A., LAMARCA, A., AND DE LARA, E. 2007. Amigo:
   proximity-based authentication of mobile devices. In Proceedings of the
   9th international conference on Ubiquitous computing. UbiComp ’07.
   Springer-Verlag, Berlin, Heidelberg, 253–270.

   CHONG, M. K. AND GELLERSEN, H. 2011. How users associate wireless
   devices. In Proceedings of the 2011 annual conference on Human factors in
   computing systems. CHI ’11. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 1909–1918.

   CHONG, M. K. AND GELLERSEN, H. 2012. Usability classification for
   spontaneous device association. Personal Ubiquitous Comput. 16, 1,
   77–89.

   KUMAR, A., SAXENA, N., TSUDIK, G., AND UZUN, E. 2009. A comparative study
   of secure device pairing methods. Pervasive Mob. Comput. 5, 734–749.

   International Journal of Security and Networks 2009 Vol. 4 No. 1/2
   Special Issue on Secure Spontaneous Interaction
   ---

   =============
   POST REBUTTAL

   As an HCI researcher, I do believe that system design papers deserve to
   be published in CHI. However, the system design contribution in this
   paper is in the network level, which I find very little relevance for
   CHI. I'll leave it for the AC members to decide whether low-level system
   design is related to the CHI community.

   "R1, R3, R4 disagree that adding a controller reduces interaction
   overhead, despite our evaluation demonstrating so." As I stated in the
   review, MultiNet "transformed" one type of association to another type.
   Subsequently, the overhead is also transformed. What I do disagree is
   that the evaluation never really shows it "reduced" the overhead, because
   the user study was an unfair study (because the bootstrapping was never
   considered), and therefor the validity does NOT hold.

   "bootstrapping a new controller is, where necessary, identical to
   association of a new device." I don't believe this is true. The authors
   are assuming that everything is already setup (e.g. the barcodes are
   already generated, printed and affixed), but this is a wrong assumption,
   which essentially biased the user study because important usability
   aspects were neglected. Secondly, without the bootstrapping, the user
   study is just investigating user performance of SiB vs WPS.

   "MultiNet places no constraints, either hardware or software, on
   clients." Why shouldn't the proxy device also be considered as "client"?
   The user is required to have it at the time of association, so it is part
   of the association. The hardware and software requirements are shifted to
   the proxy, which still requires the proxy to have "a camera to capture
   the bar code" and software "to decode", and hence still the same as SiB.

   The "security implications" point in the rebuttal is the part that upsets
   me the most. I found it utterly irresponsible that the authors admit
   removing an important part (security analysis) from the paper and then in
   retrospect realised that they should have included it after the review. I
   interpret this as the authors admitting that their submitted version was
   incomplete, and they have the audacity to "reintroduce" the missing part
   after the reviewers pointed it out. Promising that an entire new analysis
   will be added after the reviews, and knowing that there is no second
   reviewing stage for CHI, I want to know how are the reviewers suppose to
   judge the submission now? How are we supposed to know whether the new
   section would improve or worsen the paper? Honestly, the authors doing
   this is just plain wrong.

   I suggest the authors to have a look at the paper "Why Is My Internet
   Slow?: Making Network Speeds Visible" by Chetty et al, in CHI2011. The
   paper described a field study of deploying their wireless router system
   in households. Their methodology is definitely useful for evaluating
   MultiNet in the real world.

   Overall, I strongly believe that this paper should NOT be accepted for
   publication in CHI, especially knowing that there will be major changes.

Expertise

   4  (Expert )

Areas for Improvement

   The paper mentioned that the fundamental difference between MultiNet and
   SiB is in the way how information is convey and argued that SiB places
   constraints on the hardware and software, while MultiNet does not (p.3,
   1st column, last paragraph). This is not clear to me at all. How does the
   flow of conveying information constraints the hardware and software?

   The authors said that they imagine QR code containing SSID/passphrases
   credentials are produced during manufacturing or point-of-sale. Using
   static QR code provides little no opportunity for customisation. If it is
   compromised, there is no way for the user to switch to another one. I
   wish the authors can discuss more on this, or at least change their
   design to allow users to edit the QR code.

   In the last sentence of the latency section, the authors mentioned "the
   degree of variation observed suggests that there are other more
   significant factors affecting per-packet latency." What are the factors?
   Ending the discussion like that feels incomplete.

   Is table 2 really necessary? It is only necessary if results were
   analysed according to age, but the evaluation did not consider age as a
   factor of influence.

   The 2nd paragraph of the Results section can easily shorten by using a
   table.


------------------------ Submission 1435, Review 2 ------------------------

Reviewer:           external
Overall rating:     4  (scale is 1..5; 5 is best)

Your Assessment of this Paper's Contribution to HCI

   This paper presents a novel mechanism for associating devices to a home
   network. This is an area where users currently have substantial trouble. 
   Even purported "easy to use" solutions like Wifi Protected Setup have
   usability challenges, and aren't implemented consistently across devices.

   Thus, the topic has been a focus of the research community for some time.
   What's important about this paper--and what makes it worthy of acceptance
   I'd argue--is that it takes a very clever approach to association, which
   doesn't require customized software on each client device. 

   While perhaps a somewhat non-traditional contribution to HCI--since much
   of the work here is on the architectural approach of configuring the
   access point rather than the client, and on the technical level of
   ensuring the performance of the network--this paper is set in an
   established body of work looking at network usability issues in the home,
   and presents a substantial new approach to the device association
   problem.

Overall Rating

   4.0 - Possibly Accept: I would argue for accepting this paper 

Review

   This is an interesting paper, that provides a very novel take on the
   problem of device association to home networks.

   Traditional commercial approaches have well-known (and well reported in
   the CHI community) usability problems.  "Manual" setup often involves
   tedious configuration of the new device in order to enter in network
   parameters such as SSID and pre-shared security keys. Even newer
   approaches such as Wifi Protected Setup have usability challenges, and
   are implemented inconsistently across devices.

   Thus, the research community has focused on ways to approach the device
   association problem that are easier for users.  Most of these follow a
   similar pattern: some form of out-of-band channel (such as infrared) is
   used to carry credentials and configuration information from the network
   access point to the new client device. While these approaches provide
   better usability, they have two important practical disadvantages. 
   First, many use location-limited channels, such as IR communication with
   the access point; this means that they are impractical for large devices
   that can't be brought close to the access point. Second, and perhaps more
   fundamental, they require that customized software be installed on each
   client device, so that it can receive the new parameters from the access
   point and set up its configuration accordingly. This limitation makes
   these solutions largely impractical, given the heterogeneity of devices
   on the home network--you'd need custom configuration code installed on
   your PC, laptop, camera, bathroom scales, Xbox, and so on.

   The solution presented here overcomes both of these problems.  The
   solution to the first problem is relatively straightforward:  a third
   device acts as the "controller" for the network, and acts as the conduit
   for passing credentials.  Thus, no need to drag your Internet
   refrigerator to your access point.

   The solution to the second problem is the where the chief cleverness of
   this solution resides: rather than pass the access point's credentials to
   the new client device (which would require specialized software on each
   and every type of client), this solution passes the client's
   configuration information to the access point.  By "inverting" the
   problem, this solution is able to deal with greater client diversity,
   without the need for specialized software on each; the intelligence to
   deal with the new configuration interaction need only be built into the
   access point itself.  

   This is quite a clever solution, since virtually every other approach to
   this problem (at least, the ones I'm aware of) take the opposite approach
   with its attendant pragmatic hurdles.  There's a good amount of technical
   ingenuity behind this approach, where the access point creates separate
   virtual Wifi networks for each client.

   The authors provide an evaluation that shows minimal performance impacts
   of having large numbers of virtual Wifi networks, and the user testing
   shows improved usability and decreased time-to-completion.  (This latter
   finding isn't perhaps especially surprising, since other systems have
   shown similar results with "point-to-configure" approaches to device
   association.)

   On the whole I think this is solid work, and I'd argue for its
   acceptance. It's technically clever, and demonstrates a new approach to
   device association than others that have been tried in the research
   community.

Expertise

   4  (Expert )

Areas for Improvement

   My main suggestions for areas of improvement would be a more thorough
   discussion of the caveats of the system.  Specifically:

   1) While the approach of the client configuring the access point is very
   clever, it does rely on the assumption that clients are pre-configured
   for association with a given SSID, and that this information is printed
   on the QR Code. I don't think you really talk about this disadvantage of
   the system, or how it compares with the disadvantages of previous systems
   (the need for installing specialized software on each client) until the
   end of the paper. Those familiar with the issues around device
   association will "get" the tradeoffs immediately, but readers less
   familiar may assume that this approach is a panacea.  (To be clear, I
   think the approach here is better than others; but I would prefer the
   authors to be a bit more up-front about the need for some prior
   configuration of devices, and what this means for acceptance of this
   solution in the near term.)

   2) What are the security implications of using printed QR Codes for
   credentialling? If someone snaps a picture of the QR code on my laptop
   while I'm in a coffee shop, do they know everything they need in order to
   spoof a network that my laptop will associate with? What are the
   implications of having the administrative network credentials on the AP?
   Certainly, I can imagine an argument that once you have physical access
   to the AP, all bets are off, but having the QR code printed on the AP may
   allow quicker and more surreptitious sorts of attacks... some discussion
   around these issues would be good.

   A few other areas where I had questions, or would have liked a bit more
   detail:

   - The virtual Wifi network approach is quite clever.  Does this approach
   provide you with any other abilities that might be difficult on a single
   Wifi network?  For example, can you provision quality of service
   differently, or prevent some devices from routing traffic onto other
   virtual networks?  It seems there might be a lot of potential to add
   functionality here.

   - The description of the testbed setup in the Technical Feasibility
   section says that you're using 27 identical Windows laptops... then later
   it seems you're using a printer and a squeezebox also, which was
   confusing.  Can you clarify the terms of the testbed?  Also, can you say
   whether you think different devices might have very different performance
   characteristics in the face of large numbers of virtual networks, given
   different TCP or Wifi implementations?

   - The paper by Ken Calvert from HotNets 2007, "Moving Toward the Middle:
   the Case Against the End-to-End Argument in Home Networking," appears to
   make some similar arguments for solutions to home networking as this
   paper does. 

   I caught a few typos in my reading of the paper:

   - page 3, second paragraph "not easily inaccessible" should be "not
   easily accessible"
   - page 3, last paragraph in the Device Pairing Approaches section,
   "joining" is misspelled


------------------------ Submission 1435, Review 3 ------------------------

Reviewer:           external
Overall rating:     2.5  (scale is 1..5; 5 is best)

Your Assessment of this Paper's Contribution to HCI

   The paper presents MultiNet, which is a method for joining devices to a
   domestic wireless network. The goal of the method is to minimise the
   interaction overhead in joining a network by using a third device's
   camera to read a QR code previously printed on the joining device. The
   method relies heavily on pre-existing conditions, namely the joining
   devices being tagged with QR codes and the smartphone (refered in the
   paper as the network controller) being configured in the network. The
   method is evaluated in terms of its network performance and in terms of
   the usability of interaction. The results found by the authors are
   positive and the there is enough data to support their claims. However,
   even though the implementation is novel, I do have some concerns about
   whether the interaction technique is novel enough and whether it would be
   as usable in real world settings.

Overall Rating

   2.5 . . . Between possibly reject and neutral 

Review

   The paper is generally very well written. The authors define the problem
   and state their contribution clearly, cover related work adequately,
   describe the system implementation in detail, as well as the interaction
   techniques. They evaluate the system's viability by measuring the TCP
   throughput, latency, jitter and device connection time. As networking is
   outside my area of expertise, I can't make any claims regarding this
   study, but it seems sound enough. The authors seemed aware of the
   limitations of the system, but these limitations seemed to suit its
   purpose.

   The focus of the paper, however was in the usability analysis. I didn't
   find any methodological issues with the study. There were enough
   participants, with a fair age and gender distribution. The statistical
   tests and the usability metrics were also fine. They successfully
   demonstrated that the system is significantly faster in joining devices
   to a network. 

   I do have some criticisms though. The first one regards the overhead in
   pairing. The authors state that the average number of devices in domestic
   networks is somewhere between 4 and 6 devices. While they succesfully
   demonstrate that the system is faster in pairing devices once the first
   device is configured, I question whether the overhead of installing a new
   application on the phone and configuring it to work with the access point
   is worthwhile just to pair 3 to 5 other devices, especially considering
   that this is usually a one-off task. The authors do not discuss this
   configuration effort. 

   My other concern regards the technique itself. Firstly, the essence of
   the interaction is the same as Seeing is Believing, because it consists
   of taking a photo of a QR code to pair devices, the difference being that
   while in SiB the device that takes the photo is being paired, in
   MultiNet, the device taking the photo is used to pair the device to a
   third one. On one hand, one could argue that the technique is the same,
   with the smartphone acting as merely a proxy for the access point. One
   could also argue that because the smartphone is a separate device from
   the acess point, the interaction techniques are distinct. However, this
   creates a problem regarding the affordances of the technique. While in
   SiB the metaphor is clear, I can't say the same for MultiNet. Also, while
   in the reported study users were comfortable using the system in a
   controlled environment where everything is has been previously set up, I
   wonder if the technique would flow as naturally in a real setting.


   All taken into account, this is a good work, but I still got some
   reservations regarding its actual applicability in real world settings.

Expertise

   2  (Passing Knowledge)

Areas for Improvement

   Having little experience with network performance numbers, I would have
   liked to see the plots of state-of-the-art approaches as well as
   MultiNet's in figures 5,6 and 7 so that I could have a benchmark to
   compare it to.

   A good reference about what people would do naturally when pairing
   devices is Chong, Ming Ki, and Hans Gellersen. "How users associate
   wireless devices." In Proceedings of the 2011 annual conference on Human
   factors in computing systems, pp. 1909-1918. ACM, 2011.



